The theme for our program this month is treasure Jehovah's Reminders,
and it's based on Psalm 19.7, where we're told
the reminder of Jehovah is trustworthy, making the inexperienced one wise.
In the original language, the word he had translated as reminder
comes from a root word meaning to go over again to repeat.
Reminders have always been an essential part of Jehovah's teaching.
In ancient Israel, God's people continually received commandments, regulations, and reminders.
In fact, Jehovah tells us that he sent his prophets again and again
to repeatedly remind his people of their responsibilities.
The Apostle Peter felt the need to give reminders
even to those who were well established in the truth.
Notice how he describes this as second Peter 1, 12 and 13.
For this reason, I intend always to remind you of these things,
although you know them, and are well established in the truth that is present in you.
But I consider it right as long as I'm in this tabernacle
to stir you with reminders.
In verse 15, he goes on to give the reason why he felt the need to give the brothers reminders.
He says, I will always do my utmost so that after my departure,
you may be able to recall these things for yourselves.
So Peter was determined to help the brothers and sisters in his day
to remember or recall the teachings they had already learned.
It shouldn't come as a surprise then if today a lot of our teaching involves reminders.
It follows the pattern set by Jehovah in ancient Israel and with the first century Christians.
But why do we need reminders?
Let's consider three reasons.
First, let's look at Psalm 103 verse 2.
There it says, let me praise Jehovah.
May I never forget all that he has done.
Why then do we need reminders?
Simply put, because we forget.
If we had perfect memories, we wouldn't need so many reminders.
Even in everyday life, many of us use little nuts to remind ourselves of what we need to do.
And who of us hasn't seen the need for a list of reminders when going shopping,
only to realize when we return that we forgot to get one of the important items we needed to purchase.
If reminders are important in everyday life, how much more so in matters that involve our relationship with Jehovah?
Let's read Luke 10 verses 39 and 40.
Speaking of Martha, we are told.
She also had a sister called Mary, who sat down at the feet of the Lord and kept listening to what he was saying.
Martha, on the other hand, was distracted with attending to many duties.
What was Martha's problem? She was distracted.
So the second reason why we need reminders is that like Martha, at times we too become distracted.
Although we may already know a vital fact, that fact might get put into the back of our mind figuratively speaking,
because other matters are demanding our attention.
Satan is the great distractor.
He tries to turn our attention away from the true issues of our day.
People in general have become more and more distracted by entertainment and other non-essential matters.
No wonder that Satan has succeeded in misleading so many. They don't even realize what has happened.
Reason number three is alluded to at Matthew 24 verse 45.
Who really is the faithful and discrete slave?
Who is master appointed over his domestics to give them their food at the proper time?
Notice that the spiritual food is given to us at the proper time.
Our circumstances in life are continually changing.
How often do we hear that was just what I needed?
We've all experienced that haven't we?
So what are three of the reasons why we need reminders?
One, because we tend to forget things.
Two, we often become distracted.
Three, our changed circumstances may require a reminder of something we already knew but didn't fully need at that time.
So that brings us to the next question.
What will help us to remember?
It's interesting to note that Jehovah has used many ways to remind his people of what they should do.
At numbers chapter 10 verse 10, we've told that the various festivals were given as reminders, especially the celebration of the Passover.
That means that every time the Israelites prepared and celebrated one of these festivals, they will remind it of important matters, such as how Jehovah provides for his people.
And how he has saved them in the past.
Something similar happens today at the commemoration of the Lord's Eve, the meal.
Not only do we hear the reminders from God's Word, but the act of passing the bread and wine also serves as an action that reminds us of what Jesus did in our behalf.
But what do we need to do in order for those reminders to have a beneficial impact on our lives?
Notice what Psalm 119 verse 99 says.
It tells us, I have more insight than all my teachers because I ponder over your reminders.
Yes, we need to ponder over these reminders.
That means not just listening to or reading them, but it involves thinking deeply about them, meditating on their value.
Just to listen or read without meditating is like looking through the lens of a movie camera without pressing the record button.
We see things and hear things, but nothing is recorded.
So we need to meditate, visualize and review these reminders.
This will help us to remember what we learn.
But figuratively speaking, there is something else that we can do to press the record button.
That means we don't have to wait for someone else to give us a reminder.
We can make our own reminder.
How can we do so?
The answer to that question is highlighted in Jehovah's instructions to Moses as found at Exodus 1714.
Jehovah now said to Moses, write this as a memorial or the footnote says, reminder in the book and repeat it to Joshua.
What's the point?
Write down new things we want to remember.
Some brothers use a notebook or exercise book to write down a list of interesting points that they want to remember.
Then they look through the book from time to time to remind themselves of those points.
Many of us do this with our notes from conventions and assemblies.
Of course, to do that successfully, you need to remember where you put the notebook.
Additionally, we have to be careful that we don't write down every little fact.
Otherwise, we may become overwhelmed with all the information.
We can make these notes either on paper or electronically using computers or electronic devices.
Whatever system we use, let's make lists of things that we want to remember.
Many brothers have found it good to have two separate lists.
One list could be subjects, perhaps points that we want to use in the ministry or in our own lives.
Another, scriptures, explanations that clarify the meaning of certain verses.
With regard to notes on scriptures, let's ask a very important question.
Do you have a study Bible?
What is a study Bible?
Perhaps it's a separate Bible to the one you take in the ministry.
It's a Bible for you to write in so that you're reminded of things that you've learned.
These are some of the things we can do with the study Bible.
Highlight or underlying some words or verses.
That will make it easier to find them again.
But remember, not to make too many highlights or marks, otherwise nothing will stand out.
Write a summary of points and scriptures you want to remember on the blank pages in the front or the back of your Bible.
Write notes in the margin. That's what Gilead students often do.
Of course, you need the right type of pen or pencil that won't bleed through to the other side of the page.
What type of things could you write in the margin?
Perhaps new points that you learn while reading magazines or attending meetings and assemblies.
If you learn a new point, ask yourself what verses being explained and then write a brief comment in the margin next to that verse.
Let's take an example.
Perhaps you are reading the sermon on the Mount and you get to Matthew 7 verses 24 through 27.
That's the illustration about the two men who build houses, one on sand and the other on rock.
As you research this in Watchtower Library or the Research Guide, you come across the article,
are you building on sand or on rock in the November 1, 2008 Watchtower?
What points could you write in the margin to help you remember the explanation?
Perhaps you could write sand equals build on the surface.
Rock equals dig down deep.
Digging equals doing and applying.
You might even put Luke 6, 46 through 48 there.
If you still have room and you're writing a small, you could add something like this.
Not here as only but doers.
Both houses in same location, same tests, foundations different.
Now every time you read those verses, you'll be reminded of what they mean.
Perhaps like me, you've had several study Bibles over the years.
I think back to the first one I used, it was like this big green Bible.
Then later that was replaced by another Bible, this black covered Bible.
And then further still we had another Bible, the reference Bible.
And of course now for most of us we have a large print Bible.
This does however highlight a challenge we might experience.
It can be frustrating when a new edition of the Bible comes out.
How do you transfer all your study notes over to the new Bible?
Additionally, our beloved study Bible may wear out or will still be lost, stolen, burned, ruined, run over, blown away.
So that's the advantage of using an electronic list.
It doesn't matter what type of file you use, it can be updated very easily.
And you can even make copies, not like the print copy that already has the old idea written in the margin.
Even now in English we have the books of Matthew, Mark, and Luke in our electronic study Bible on JW.org and WOL.
Later in the program we have some exciting news about how JW Library will help us in this regard.
But I'll leave that for later.
Really, having a study Bible is not only helpful, but it also makes our personal study far more interesting.
How so?
Every time we read or study a publication, we'll find ourselves searching for new points that we can write in our study Bible.
This way we'll be doing what the Psalmist expressed at Psalm 119, verse 111.
We will take Jehovah's Reminders as our permanent possession or heritage for his reminders are the joy of our hearts.